# Pieces of Eden

A Piece of Eden is a type of sophisticated technology created by the [Isu](isu.md). Named after the Isu's city of Eden, where they kept early humanity as slaves and which later free humans would mythologize as a paradisal garden where they had regular contact with the divine, the Pieces vary greatly in design and function, with some serving more mundane uses than others.

Some of the most common Pieces, like the Apples and Staves of Eden, were created for the primary purpose of mentally and physically controlling human thoughts, emotions, and behavior. Made from a substance alternately referred to as "adamant" or "pathorica", an energy-channeling synthetic metal that affected the neurotransmitter network engineered into human brains by restructuring the emotion-processing limbic system, these Pieces were the main instrument by which the Isu enforced their subjugation of humanity. Other classes of Pieces served different roles, being utilized as weapons of war, instruments of healing, or recording devices, among other functions.

While wider Isu society viewed the Pieces as little more than "refuse" due to how commonplace they were, their diverse powers have mystified humanity over millennia, enough for them to conflate them with "magic" throughout history. The Isu's extinction following the Great Catastrophe only reinforced this, as memories of the Isu faded into legends and myths. Since humans lack the technological expertise to reproduce these devices, they have long been the subject of innumerable conflicts between rival human factions seeking them for their own ends. In particular, they are a central obsession for the [Templars](templar_order.md), who have devoted much of their resources to searching and seizing these artifacts in their quest for world domination.
